The Trump administration said it was prepared to impose “strong and swift” economic sanctions on Venezuela, including banning its crude-oil exports to the U.S., if its president moves ahead with a plan to rewrite the country’s constitution.

The former Exxon CEO also said banning exports of oil from Venezuela is also a possibility.

Banning sales of Venezuelan oil in the U.S. and suspending refining of Venezuelan crude by American companies could further hurt the already suffering Venezuelan people, American businesses and Caribbean nations that depend on it.

The U.S. is considering a ban on oil imports from Venezuela but is wary of damage to U.S. companies, Secretary of State Tillerson said over the weekend.

Critics have said a US oil embargo will not help Washington to oust Maduro, but will create more hardship for the Venezuelan people, who are suffering from food and medical shortages.

Washington warned it may impose an embargo on imports from Venezuela to add more pressure on Maduro before the presidential elections in the country in April.

“The oil embargo would be one of the biggest mistakes in international politics that Donald Trump would commit,” Maduro posted on Twitter.

Oil prices drops slightly on Tuesday after rallying for three straight sessions, but remained close to four-year highs on worries that global supplies will drop due to Washington’s sanctions on Iran.

Trump has already introduced financial and individual sanctions on Venezuela and dozens of its leaders.

Venezuela’s oil exports sank 40 percent in the first full month after the beginning of U.S. sanctions designed to oust Socialist President Nicolas Maduro, according to data from state-run oil firm PDVSA and Refinitiv Eikon.

In the full month following sanctions, PDVSA imported 165,000 bpd of fuel, mainly from the United States and Europe.

In total, PDVSA exported 675,000 bpd of crude and 245,000 bpd of fuel, versus 1.28 million to 1.46 million bpd of crude and 200,000 bpd of fuel prior to sanctions.

Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said the US could sanction Venezuelan oil imports, possibly crippling the country’s economy .

The US is currently imposing fairly harsh sanctions on Venezuela - the US’ third-largest oil supplier - at the moment, including its state-owned oil company PDVSA.

President Donald Trump imposed further sanctions on Venezuela, freezing the government’s assets in the U.S. and adding immigration restrictions in a move aimed at stepping up pressure on the regime of Nicolas Maduro.

The United States is preparing to impose more sanctions on Venezuela’s oil sector, President Donald Trump said on Tuesday, in an attempt to choke financing to President Nicolas Maduro’s government.

The United States imposed sanctions last week on Rosneft Trading SA as it emerged as a key intermediary for the sale of Venezuelan oil.

U.S. Special Representative for Venezuela Elliott Abrams told Reuters on Monday that new sanctions against Venezuela’s oil sector will be more aggressive in punishing people and companies that violate them.

Oil output in Iran and Venezuela, under U.S. sanctions, has fallen by more than that of other OPEC members party to a supply cut pact, suggesting President Trump’s policies have had a greater impact on oil production than OPEC itself.

The sanctions have deepened the impact of supply cuts agreed by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries , which is expected at meetings with its allies next Monday and Tuesday in Vienna to renew the accord.

The actual supply cut is more than 2.5 million bpd, according to OPEC figures, because top exporter Saudi Arabia has voluntary reduced supply by more than the deal requires and because of U.S. sanctions on two OPEC founder members Venezuela and Iran.

The United States restored sanctions targeting Iran’s oil sector in early November, cutting the country’s crude exports by close to 1 million bpd from a summer peak.

The drop in oil prices to their lowest in two years has caught many observers off guard, coming against a backdrop of the worst violence in Iraq this decade, heightened tensions between the West and Russia, and sanctions against Iran.

Western sanctions on Iran and turmoil in several other oil producers have also reduced supply, pushing oil prices towards the top of recent ranges.

