Crude prices closed up more than 4 percent on Thursday as rising violence in producer Libya and a boost in oil demand. 

The U.S. government said on Tuesday it expects domestic oil output in 2016 to grow only 2.2 percent, the slowest pace in years, as the relentless rout in prices puts the brakes on the country’s five-year shale boom.

Production of oil has risen steadily , climbing to nearly 1.8 billion gallons in 2013 from 1.1 billion gallons in 2012, according to the National Biodiesel Board.

OPEC’s oil production rose in July from June, a Reuters survey found on Wednesday, as a fragile recovery in Libyan supply outweighed fighting in Iraq and reduced output from Angola.

Oil prices have collapsed this year as the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries opted to maintain the same level of output despite a global glut caused by expanding U.S. shale output and diminished demand growth from China.

Oil prices fell on Wednesday to a 5-1/2-year low under pressure from a global glut of crude. 

Brent crude rose to $105 a barrel on Monday to come off of a four-month low hit in the previous session, with worries about global oversupply still outweighing concerns about violence in the Middle East and North Africa.

Brent crude oil climbed to around $110 a barrel on Tuesday , supported by tight supply and strong demand growth from the world 's top oil consumers, the United States and China.

After soaring above $19 a barrel on Tuesday, oil prices fell back last night to $18.84 in spite of an announcement by Iran that it would cut its production next month.

Oil prices rose sharply on Thursday with Brent crude climbing above $112 for the first time since March on worries that violence in Iraq could disrupt supplies.

Concerns over the ongoing Sunni insurgency in Iraq remain and are affecting the broad investment markets because of the potential to disrupt oil supply.

Investors are concerned about the potential impact on oil supplies.

Crude oil futures rose on Tuesday on signs of falling U.S. oil production, weakness in the dollar and tensions in the Middle East, particularly Yemen.

Venezuelan oil production has been falling in the recent years, but was still around 1.7 million barrels per day in December.

Excluding oil and gas, "onshore" output fell 0.1 per cent in the fourth quarter, extending the recession to ten quarters from the peak in the second quarter of 1990.

From 1974 to 1975 output fell by 12 per cent, followed by moderate recovery, but from 1979 to 1981 there was a reduction of output of no less than 17 per cent.

As CNN Money reported: “Venezuelan oil production has been falling fast since 2014, but the country still pumped 1.7 million barrels a day in December, according to industry estimates.”

The actual supply cut is more than 2.5 million bpd, according to OPEC figures, because top exporter Saudi Arabia has voluntary reduced supply by more than the deal requires and because of U.S. sanctions on two OPEC founder members Venezuela and Iran.

Western sanctions on Iran and turmoil in several other oil producers have also reduced supply, pushing oil prices towards the top of recent ranges.

Oil prices drops slightly on Tuesday after rallying for three straight sessions, but remained close to four-year highs on worries that global supplies will drop due to Washington’s sanctions on Iran.

Venezuela’s exports since then have dropped to 920,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude and fuel, the data shows.

Unplanned production cuts from Canada to Nigeria eased the glut that prompted the worst price rout in a generation.

OPEC’s cut is 800,000 bpd, to be delivered by 11 members - all except Iran, Libya and Venezuela.

The sanctions have deepened the impact of supply cuts agreed by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, which is expected at meetings with its allies next Monday and Tuesday in Vienna to renew the accord.

Crude oil prices rose slightly on Tuesday on supply disruptions due to the conflicts in Iraq and Ukraine.

Oil fell 5 percent to its lowest in nearly six years on Monday , extending the second-deepest rout on record, after Goldman Sachs warned that prices would fall further and Gulf oil producers showed no sign of cutting output.

Crude prices plunged further on Monday after OPEC once again said it will not cut oil output despite fears of a glut, and a UAE official opposed holding an emergency meeting of the producer group to support prices.

U.S. oil futures settled sharply higher Friday after government inventory data showed a smaller-than-expected fall in crude inventories, but contrasted with unofficial figures that had showed a massive supply build, sparking a relief rally.

ExxonMobil plans to triple its production in the Permian Basin, the energy giant announced Tuesday.

U.S. oil production surged to a 46-year record in October.




