Exxon Mobil Corp said on Friday that it expects global oil demand to drop sharply by 2040 if regulations aimed at limiting the impact of greenhouse gas emissions on climate are fully implemented.

Brent has fallen from a high of $115.71 reached in June - a level reached on concern that Islamic State’s insurgency into Iraq would disrupt its supplies.

Oil fell 5 percent to its lowest in nearly six years on Monday, extending the second-deepest rout on record.

Oil prices fell on Wednesday to a 5-1/2-year low under pressure from a global glut of crude.

Price of oil falls from US$30 a barrel to $18 on perceptions of overwhelming allied military strength.

By early November, however, prices had tumbled to $1,603.50 a tonne (for immediate delivery), and fell steadily as stocks rose to a record 315,600 tonnes in December. 

After soaring above $19 a barrel on Tuesday, oil prices fell back last night to $18.84 in spite of an announcement by Iran that it would cut its production next month.

Oil prices fell sharply in the final quarter of 1991 and a more modest decline is expected over the next quarter.

After the meeting, world petroleum prices fell well below the $18 per barrel reference price agreed at the November meeting, even though buyers' stocks were at their lowest levels since 1974.

In May the price of oil fell to its lowest level since 1975-76.

In 1986 alone, primary commodity prices fell sharply by an average of nine per cent.

Oil prices have collapsed this year as the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries opted to maintain the same level of output despite a global glut caused by expanding U.S. shale output and diminished demand growth from China.

Oil prices crashed on Wednesday, with U.S. crude losing 9 percent in one of its biggest daily routs ever, as record high oil inventories in the United States interrupted a four-day rally.

Unplanned production cuts from Canada to Nigeria eased the glut that prompted the worst price rout in a generation.

The U.S. government said on Tuesday it expects domestic oil output in 2016 to grow only 2.2 percent, the slowest pace in years, as the relentless rout in prices puts the brakes on the country’s five-year shale boom.

World oil prices are set to fall further, extending a months-long rout as Saudi Arabia is unlikely to make deep enough production cuts to erase a growing surplus of supply.

Oil fell 5 percent to its lowest in nearly six years on Monday, extending the second-deepest rout on record, after Goldman Sachs warned that prices would fall further and Gulf oil producers showed no sign of cutting output.

The slide in oil prices is said to have been arrested by a step up in tensions between Russia and the West.

Crude prices plunged further on Monday after OPEC once again said it will not cut oil output despite fears of a glut, and a UAE official opposed holding an emergency meeting of the producer group to support prices.

Oil prices plunged to multi-year lows on Monday as tensions between Russia and Saudi Arabia escalate, sparking fears on the Street that an all-out price war is imminent .

The price of oil has sunk to levels not seen since 2002 as demand for crude collapses amid the coronavirus pandemic.

The U.S. Energy Information Administration cut its global oil demand growth estimate for 2015 by 240,000 barrels per day (bpd) to 880,000 bpd.

The IEA cut its estimate of demand for OPEC crude.

Forecasts for a supply glut in West African and European markets help to push the Brent benchmark down 3.3 percent last week , despite geopolitical tension in Iraq, Libya and Ukraine .

Brazil’s oil output fell 1.21 percent in November from the previous month, regulator ANP said in a statement on Tuesday, after state-run oil company Petróleo Brasileiro SA carried out maintenance work at some production units.
 