.-.Oil around $110 on tight supply, buoyant demand
.-.June 10, 2014
.-.https://www.reuters.com/news/archive/GCA-Commodities/article/us-markets-oil/oil-around-110-on-tight-supply-buoyant-demand-idUSKBN0EL19J20140610.

LONDON (Reuters) - Brent crude oil steadied around $110 a barrel on Tuesday, supported by tight supply and hopes of demand growth from the world’s top oil consumers, the United States and China. 
Oil exports from Libya have dropped to a trickle in recent months, removing as much as 1.4 million barrels per day (bpd) of high-quality, light crude from the oil market and underpinning prices for other grades such as North Sea oil.  
Western sanctions on Iran and turmoil in several other oil producers have also reduced supply, pushing oil prices towards the top of recent ranges. 
Brent rose almost 1.3 percent on Monday, its biggest daily percentage advance in nearly two months, and consolidated on Tuesday. 
Brent was up 20 cents at $110.19 a barrel by 7:30 a.m. ET.  
U.S. oil rose 35 cents to $104.76 a barrel. It ended up 1.7 percent on Monday, its biggest daily gain since April. 
China's central bank cut the level of reserves that banks with sizeable loans to the farming sector and other companies must hold, helping support the economy.
Oil also drew support from expectations of a drop in U.S. crude inventories, signaling healthy consumption as the summer driving season gets under way.    
The expected decline in U.S. crude stockpiles of 1.5 million barrels, according to a Reuters poll, follows data showing employment returned to its pre-recession peak, the latest in a string of positive U.S. indicators.  
The oil market kept an eye on producer group the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), which meets in Vienna on Wednesday to decide oil output targets. 
The cartel, which pumps a third of the world’s oil, has said it is happy with global oil prices and is expected to maintain its production target at 30 million bpd. 
Libya’s Oil Minister Omar Shakmak agreed, saying an oil price close to $110 a barrel was good for the oil market.
Additional reporting by Manash Goswami in Singapore; Editing by Dale Hudson
